buying a PC part by part can be tough
thanks to Modern
branding it's impossible to know what's
good especially if you've been out of
the loop for a while what is the
difference between a ryzen
77700 and 7700x should I save the dollar
is an expensive motherboard really
faster and what's better between super
an XT I know I'm just going to Mosey on
over to New Egg and round up the best
rated parts and see if the herd
mentality steers me wrong or lands me
kneed deep in manure but first I got to
rustle up a
segue to our sponsor pulseway monitor
automate and take control of your it
systems from your phone with pulse's
full function mobile app use our link to
try it for free today and secure 40% off
on any plan including their
month-to-month options first the rules
we decided that to be a herd mentality
part every product we chose had to have
five eggs good job buddy we also decided
that they needed at least 100 reviews to
ensure that they were proven performers
and we filtered by in stock so you know
you could actually buy the stuff so drum
roll please your CPU of choice is
Intel's core i7 12 700k I got to say way
to go herd I mean a couple of months
back when we started compiling our list
we were a little surprised to see you
all sticking with tried and true 12 gen
but since then it's emerged that 13th
and 14th gen Intel chips have been
susceptible to random crashing and even
outright failure so we give up some
speed sure but we've still got 12 stable
cores in our socket for around 260 bucks
not bad in fact the only thing people
didn't like about it was that it failed
to boot and then boots all right then
our other Contender for the best rated
CPU was the AMD 7800 x3d it ties the 4.9
egg rating but given that it shares its
636 reviews with two other chips we
couldn't very well give it the win even
if we'd like to it is another $100 and
actually has four fewer cores but those
cores absolutely Excel for gaming and
its am5 socket is expected to be
supported until at least 2027 making it
a no-brainer for the gamers out there
after adjusting our search parameters to
include only compatible LGA 1700 boards
msi's Pro z690 a Wi-Fi ddr5 is our big
winner now this one's another aggregate
review score so it's kind of hard to say
which of those boards are the best
reviewed ones but it comes up first in
the results compared to its product page
siblings and it gets wait only 4 and 1/2
eggs Yep this is our first piece that
lands outside of our 5 egg Target but as
it turns out that's as good as it gets
for a motherboard and it might be all
right I mean MSI won our shootout a few
years back when we tried 10 boards with
one CPU and it's also got a healthy mix
of features with lots of IO pcie Gen 5
for our graphics card decent expansion
for later RGB and Wi-Fi 6E so what's not
to love about it well according to our
one egg reviewers the ones that don't
work next up comes memory and after much
deliberation we settled on the 64 gig
Fury Beast kit from Kingston why
deliberation well none of the 5A gram
kits had a lot of reviews so we sorted
by rating and lowered the threshold to
20 which put this one on top
unfortunately it's my first real displ
I mean it's not bad but does the average
user in 2024 really need 64 gigs of RAM
and at 6,000 megat transfers per second
CL 36 it's not the greatest performing
kit either especially given we're
spending
$220 bad reviews here focused mainly on
their instability though realistically
that's probably more down to their
motherboard choice or the memory
controller on their CPU anyway another
disappointment for us was our store
because while it is an m.2 nvme Drive
which should be plenty fast for the
modern gamer specifically it's the
Samsung 970 Evo plus 500 gig that's not
a lot of space for the modern gamer our
one or two egg reviews here focused on
its a lack of longevity lack of
longevity and especially lack of
longevity though it is worth noting that
none of those reviews have shown up
recently and we did find some Forum
articles that seem to indicate that s
might have patched some bugs in this
particular Drive speaking of situations
that have changed recently our last part
before we unveil our case is deep Cool's
AG 620 Tower cooler you um can't buy
these in the United States anymore on
account of deep cool allegedly engaging
in selling to Russian businesses and
whatnot but before that happened we
bought this fine 5A cooler for just
$61.50 since it's no longer listed on
the US site though we had to go to the
Canadian website to get screen capture
of the reviews where there weren't any
reviews below 4 eggs no complaints you
know what else you won't be complaining
about our new Intergalactic GPU poster
from LTD store.com and the best thing is
you can buy one without supporting the
Russian war machine woo now let's get
all of this into the
case nice the fractal meshify 2 might
not meet our 4o egg threshold anymore
but it did when we ordered it and
come on Joshua D that has nothing to do
with the build quality of this fine case
it's got loads of room to work in rubber
grommets for cable management it comes
with fans and thanks to its mesh front
panel it should keep our components nice
and cool also luckily for us while it is
on the expensive side at
$160 the light tint teered glass window
option that we got is still on sale for
just 110 complaints about it mostly
centered on its lack of E ATX support a
lack of support for 420 mm radiators
without removing the front fanss and
some stripped screws now to get things
powered up with a power supply from oh
of course it is SE Sonic it's the vertex
gx1000 this is a 1,000 wat 80 plus gold
fully modular power supply and what's
not to love it was even on sale for 170
bucks when we bought it I think the only
real criticism that I would level at the
herd here is that this is kind of
Overkill I mean I haven't shown you guys
the GPU yet but we do not need a 1,000 W
power supply and we could have saved
some money if we'd gone with an 800 watt
but I'm not the one making the rules
today folks now the astute observers out
there are probably yelling lonus that's
not 100 reviews you cheated cuz you love
seic so much but you know what I say to
that look
again boom the only one egg review for
this thing was from someone who ordered
the plat Plum rated variant but got gold
and that was probably new egg's fault
that is some fine power supply making
now it's time at long last to talk GPU
love them or hate them Asus takes this
one with exactly 100 reviews on their
470 TI super OC Edition there's a lot to
like about this guy 16 gigs of vram an
elevated boost clock fourth gen tensor
course third gen rate tracing course
it's a great card no matter which brand
you buy it from and Ours was on sale the
one egg reviews here had to do with a
DOA product and surprise surprise a lack
of customer
support and would you look at that it's
a pretty nice build at just over
$900 we've spent a lot of money but
we've also got a very competent high-end
gaming rig it looks good it games good
but does it compete good you see I've
been hiding something from you this
whole time we built a second PC with our
own choices with the goal of bleeding
excuse me I mean beating the herd
and okay we went like $9 over budget but
come on it's going to be the best $9 you
ever spent cuz I think we did awesome
here we've got a one tbte Gen4 Drive
instead of 512 gigs we upgraded our CPU
remember of course we were looking at
Parts before for AMD launched ryzen
99000 and put the 7,000 series on promo
but we've got half as much RAM running
at a much faster speed and the best part
Gamers we squeezed in a 4080 super
instead of that 4070 TI super now we did
compromise a little bit on our eggs most
of them are in the 4 and a half range
but some of them are even still five egg
products so we didn't do any weird
bottom ofth Barrel dumpster diving in
order to save that money but enough
chitchat
let's see how we did we'll kick things
off with good oldfashioned cine bench
and wait why do you get the good one cuz
I chose the good one mind you I mean
it's a miracle even finish the run so
yeah make sure mic code update is
available now but uh anyway my 12 gen
one definitely works yep but what about
games what do you want to start with
Counter Strike Counter Strike two that's
it all right now I'd like people to note
that just because he gets more kills
than me doesn't mean that his computer
is that much better than me he's just a
much better gamer oh we're totally in
the same match let's go where you at
brother I killed huge reaction no oh I'm
dead too we died like nice I just got
three in Rapid succession here I'm
catching up it's over what yeah match is
over oh are we in different matches we
must be cuz my match is over I thought
it looked like the same match loaded in
at like the exact same time you know
what we haven't been doing paying
attention to the frame rate oh right uh
wow they're really close I'm sitting at
like 270 FPS I mean mine fluctuates a
lot it goes from like 220 to 320 293 280
290 see let's see your kill to death
ratio though oh my God that's the real
Mark of a gaming rig yeah that's how
that works I'm a little surprised that
you're not getting any extra on the 280
super this is 4K basically cranked right
yeah but Counterstrike is really CPU
bound and as much as the 13 700k is a
little better than it's not that much
better right and certainly not in like
single threaded performance my GPU
peaked at
62 okay so they're pretty close yeah
mine's also around 62 okay all right
let's Halo infin Halo infinite sure
where are you okay all right let's go
let's go okay I like this
gun uh okay I'm at 120 you're at one oh
yeah I'm clearly in the lead it's not a
lot I would say that it's enough that in
a pretty bad sit situation you're going
to have a slight Edge for smoothness but
both of these are extremely playable
yeah I don't think this one's going to
be that close I mean with Ray tracing on
I'm actually losing right now get out of
the way
buddy hey hey I'm driving here okay you
know what now it's pretty I am winning
like I know we're not in the same spot
but I'm getting like 30 pretty
consistently oras you're at like a
consistent 24 that's a pretty solid
machine man they're both good yeah
they're both good that's a quite a bit
better measurably better I mean okay
when it's this low of an FPS yeah 7 FPS
6 FPS that's like more than 10%
yeah but they're both around the same
like realistically 32 to 27 FPS if I had
both of these in front of me I wouldn't
be able to tell okay okay yeah you're
right look all right all right you built
a better machine you want a cookie yes
give cookie please dudee I can't even
like
aame that's not good yeah what are your
1% not great oh yeah see my 1% are
pretty consistently 30 30 plus whereas
you're dipping into like 24 territory
for your 1% lows that's that big
difference right there yeah
realistically you'd be pretty happy with
either of these I think the herd did a
great job but ploof system does show how
important it is to prioritize a bigger
GPU and faster memory I also think we
could have gotten better bang for the
buck if we didn't care about buying into
a modern platform something like a 5800
X 3D with some higher end ddr4 and a
cheap am4 motherboard makes for a wicked
value gaming system and would give you
even more money to spend on your GPU so
yeah it's a tad overpriced for what you
get but you can't fault the quality and
if you want to buy anything that you saw
here today well except maybe that deep
cool cooler we're going to have links in
the video description and the big
conclusion here is that in spite of all
the attempts to spread misinformation
online reviews still largely serve their
purpose you just might have to sift a
little bit and do some research to
really find the absolute best bang for
your buck oh and make sure to shop
around because you never know when you
might find a deal somewhere or free
shipping or a segue to today's sponsor
Bessie an amalgamation of style and
functionality with a touch of old school
class Bessie's new Courtside classic
kicks are reminiscent of a traditional
tennis shoe but with the added benefit
that vessie claims they are fully
waterproof they also feature a specially
constructed tongue to provide additional
uh flexibility and removable insul so
you're free to slide in your custom
orthotics for even more Comfort whether
it's a nice long stroll through the park
or a lazy day on the beach you can rock
that vintage look without fear of sudden
downpours their shoes are also vegan
friendly so you can do your Urban
exploring guilt-free and the cherry on
top of it all is they offer free 90-day
returns and exchanges within North
America so get yours at vy.com Linus
techtips or scan the code on screen and
save 15% off your entire purchase if you
guys enjoyed this video maybe check out
the last time we did this the PC
landscape sure has changed in the last
couple of years